The Ford Nucleon was a concept car developed by Ford in 1957, designed as a future nuclear-powered car—one of a handful of such designs during the 1950s and '60s. The concept was only demonstrated as a scale model. The design did not include an internal-combustion engine; rather, the vehicle was to be powered by a small nuclear reactor in the rear of the vehicle, based on the assumption that this would one day be possible by reducing sizes. The car was to use a steam engine powered by uranium fission, similar to those found in nuclear submarines.

At the time of the Ford Nucleon's unveiling, nuclear technology was relatively new, and it was believed that nuclear fission technology could be made compact and affordable, such that nuclear fuel would become the primary energy source in the U.S., and gasoline would become obsolete. Ford envisioned a future where gas stations would be replaced with full service recharging stations, and that the vehicle would get 5000 miles before the reactor would have to be exchanged for a new one. These would be scaled-down versions of the nuclear reactors that military submarines used at the time, utilizing uranium as the fissile material. Because the entire reactor would be replaced, Ford hypothesized that the owner would have multiple choices for reactors, such as a fuel-efficient model or a high-performance model, at each reactor change. Ultimately, the reactor would use heat to convert water into steam and the power train would be steam-driven.

-----

The story of the Audi Quattro began in 1977 when Audi engineer Jorg Bensinger proposed the idea of a high-performance car with AWD. The German company used an Audi 80 as a test mule and introduced the production model in 1980. Restricted to a two-door body style, the Quattro was powered by a 2.1-liter five-cylinder engine.

Audi launched a rally-spec version of Quattro the same year. The car proved competitive from day one and brought Audi its first manufacturers' championship in 1982. Over the next couple of years, Hannu Mikkola and Stig Blomqvist turned the Quattro into a dominant force, winning head-to-head WRC championships.

However, the Group B class became a more difficult challenge in 1985, when Peugeot and Lancia started rolling out mid-engined silhouette versions of the 205 and Delta, respectively. With the Quattro outclassed by the Peugeot 205 T16, Audi began working on a more extreme version of its rally car.

Developed in a rather short space of time, the Quattro S1 E2 was a notable departure from its predecessor. It was not only based on a shorter wheelbase version of the coupe, but it also featured some wild aerodynamics. In fact, the S1 was the first rally car that used wings and splitters for downforce rather than balance. Compared to its A1 and A2 predecessors, the S1 also gained a central differential, while output increased to around 500 horsepower.

Tipping the scales at only 1,090 kg (2,403 pounds), the Quattro S1 needed only three seconds to reach 60 mph (97 kph) from a standing start, quicker than supercars like the Ferrari 288 GTO and the Porsche 959.

-----

The DeltaWing, built by Panoz, was designed to reduce aerodynamic drag dramatically, to allow a marginally faster straight and corner speed than a 2009-2011 Dallara IndyCar on both ovals and road/street courses with half as much weight, engine power and fuel consumption. As the name suggests, it has a delta wing shape, with an unusually narrow 0.6 metres (2 ft 0 in) front track and a more traditional 1.7 metres (5 ft 7 in) rear track. The car lacks any front or rear wings - downforce comes from the underbody. 
In 2012, the engine was a four-cylinder turbocharged direct injection 300 bhp unit assembled by Ray Mallock Engineering with largely Chevrolet parts. The model to run at Le Mans had a 40 litres (8.8 imp gal; 11 US gal) fuel tank, bespoke BBS 380 millimetres (15 in) wheels and Michelin tyres, a weight of 475 kilograms (1,047 lb), a power-to-weight ratio of 631 brake horsepower per ton, and a drag coefficient of 0.35. 
The braking system weighs 13.2 kilograms (29.2 lb), about half the normal weight for a race car. Also unique compared to other race cars is that 72.5 percent of the mass and 76 percent of the downforce is at the rear. It has a moveable Gurney flap, normally not allowed but can be used by experimental vehicles. 

https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=dois24_CfJw

-----